hart12poplar-coppice [![PDF Status](https://www.sharelatex.com/github/repos/qjhart/hart12poplar-coppice/builds/latest/badge.svg)](https://www.sharelatex.com/github/repos/qjhart/hart12poplar-coppice/builds/latest/output.pdf)
====================

Short rotation woody crops (SRWC) such as hybrid poplar \pop are
potential feedstocks for cellulosic derived biofuels. The ability to accurately
predict the growth and biomass yields of SRWC under various environmental
conditions is important for predicting economic performance and overall
sustainability of the biofuel production system.  Tree coppicing is often used
in the management of SRWC plantations. Modeling the response of the SRWC to the
coppice cycle is a requirement in long term predictions of stand
productivity. The objective of this study was to develop a model of poplar
growth to evaluate feedstock supply potentials under different production
conditions including coppicing.  This was accomplished by modifying the
Physiological Principles in Predicting Growth (3PG) model originally developed
by Landsberg et al. (1997) to include a simple root interaction system to
simulate the sprouting and regrowth of coppiced trees. The modified model,
3PG-AHB, was tested against published information from three previous hybrid
poplar field studies employing coppicing.  Soil and weather inputs were
parameterized to be as close to the growing conditions as possible for the field
trials.  

The model parameterized with generic poplar derived values generally predicted
crop yield under coppicing to within the variations among different species
field tested.  The model's predictions were weakest in the first year after
coppicing events, improving thereafter. The model has been used as part of a
geospatial assessment of regional biomass production for the Pacific Northwest,
and appears to be useful for SRWC feedstock estimation.
